= Installation and setup

These instructions are intended to enable a developer to set-up a development environment for the purposes of:

* running the jsHub code on a local machine
* running the jsHub Unit Tests in a local web browser
 
== Getting the code

The latest release of the JsHub code is made available for download at:

  http://jshub.org/download/

=== Git repositories

If you have Git installed you can clone from the following URLs, depending on whether or not you have been given committer access by the project administrators:

  git clone https://jshub.org/git/jshub-core.git (Read-only)
  git clone git@jshub.org:jshub-core.git (Read-write)

== Development environment

The jsHub core app is a standard Ruby on Rails 2.3 application.

To run automated Unit Tests, and optionally use the results with a Continuous Integration server, Java is also required.

=== Supported operating systems

Development is regularly undertaken on the following:

* Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard (x86) 
* CentOS 5 (x86)
* Ubuntu Linux 8.04 (x86)
 
The following instructions are using Mac OS X 10.5 as the host operating system and should be applicable to other Linux or UNIX based distributions.

Windows platforms are not explicitly tested, however as Ruby on Rails and Java are available, installation is also straight forward with specifics noted below.

== Setting up the environment

Mac OS X 10.5 comes pre-installed with many of the necessary languages and libraries for Ruby on Rails development, but at the time of this writing these a quite out-of-date when initially installed.

It is recommended that the OS is updated to the latest available from Apple using the Software Update application.

Most other operating systems have downloadable binary installers or packages in their management system.

On Windows we recommend the Ruby One-Click Installer available from http://www.ruby-lang.org and select the 'Enable Rubygems' option in the installer.

=== Environment for javascript development

Currently development is undertaken on Mac OS X 10.5.7 with the following versions:

* Ruby version     - ruby 1.8.6 (2008-08-11 patchlevel 287) [universal-darwin9.0] 
* RubyGems version - 1.3.1
* Rails version    - Rails 2.3.2
* SQLite version   - sqlite3 3.4.0

Please note jsHub is not currently tested on Ruby v1.9.

The easiest way to get the latest versions of RubyGems and Rails is to run the following commands in the Terminal.app, (you will be prompted for your user password):

    % sudo gem update --system
    % sudo gem upgrade
  
On Windows the SQLite3 client (sqlite-3-xxx.zip) and .dll (sqlitedll-3-xx.zip) can be obtained from http://www.sqlite.org/download.html . Extract them to e.g. C:\sqlite3 and add this folder to your system PATH environment variable.

=== Environment for running automated tests
 
Running of headless Unit Tests (rather than in a web browser) uses Rhino and requires a Java Runtime Environment.

Currently development is undertaken on Mac OS X 10.5.7 with the following version:

* Java version     - java version "1.6.0_13"
                      
=== Environment for contributing to the project
                   
If you wish to contribute back to the project you will also require Git (similar to SVN/CVS) to checkout the latest code and generate patches for submission.

Most operating systems have a downloadable binary installer or package in their management system.

For Mac OS X 10.5.7 we recommend the Git for OS X installer from http://code.google.com/p/git-osx-installer which installs the following:

* Git version      - git version 1.6.0.2
 
there is also a useful GUI called 'GitX' at http://gitx.frim.nl

=== Gem dependencies

The application requires a number of gems to be present.

A list of these with their install status can be determined by running, from the root of the application:

    % sudo rake gems

To install missing gems run:

    % sudo rake gems:install
  
The gem list is configured in the <tt>environment.rb</tt> file should you wish more information on the specific gems and versions needed.

== Running the application

Set-up the database:

    % rake db:migrate

To run the application use:

    % ruby ./script/server

you can now access the application on http://localhost:3000 (by default)

On Windows you may be prompted by the Windows Firewall or other security software to allow the application to run.

For other deployment instructions please see the {doc/help/deployment.rdoc}[link:files/doc/help/deployment_rdoc.html] file

== Running Unit Tests in a browser

The application comes with a set of comprehensive test pages that can be run in a web browser:

* http://localhost:3000/test/unit

Each page submits its results to a local database, also identifying the browser used, so that the Unit Test pages can be run from any other local machines with web browsers installed as part of a cross-browser test suite:

* http://localhost:3000/test/results

For more detailed instructions please see the {doc/help/testing.rdoc}[link:files/doc/help/testing_rdoc.html] file.

== Support

For further information on:

* creating and testing jsHub data-capture and transport plug-ins
* contributing additional code, bug fixes and Unit Tests

Generate the local documentation with:

    % rake jshub:doc

Please refer to the local help pages at {doc/help}[link:index.html]

Run <tt>rake -T</tt> to find other tasks in the <tt>jshub</tt> namespace

The best place to get other support is on the mailing list:

  http://jshub.org/mailing-list/

There is also a Trac powered dev site available here:

  http://jshub.org/
